FILE: /Users/kalhawari/Documents/Ads Genie/Ads-Genie-Architecture-Review-and-Strategic-Recommendations.pdf
2026-03-10 18:19:53.356 osascript[16040:2081270] Error received in message reply handler: Connection invalid
2026-03-10 18:19:53.356 osascript[16040:2081273] Connection Invalid error for service com.apple.hiservices-xpcservice.
PAGES: 10

--- PAGE 1 ---
Ads Genie: Architecture
Review & Strategic
Recommendations
Prepared for
Render Analytics
Prepared by
Chris Morancie
Date
March 2026
Status: DRAFT
For Discussion
This review is
informed by the
AI Production
Framework. A
structured
methodology for
building
production-grade
AI systems.

--- PAGE 2 ---
1. What Y ou Got Right
The strategy document demonstrates strong product instinct. The bones are solid. The architecture needs rethinking but the
foundational thinking is directionally correct across four key areas.
Competitive Read on SearchAtlas OTTO
OTTO is a generic tool built by an SEO company. Your
institutional knowledge across 10+ verticals and 4 years of
MCC data is a real moat, but, only if it's encoded in
infrastructure, not prompts.
Phased Approach
The phased approach is directionally correct. Start simple,
build toward a product. The sequencing instinct is sound
even if the specific phases need revision.
Slack Integration as Differentiator
No competitor has this. But how it's architected matters
more than whether it exists. The distinction between chat
interface and control plane is critical.
Draft Mode / Human Review
Draft mode before campaign actions go live is non-
negotiable for production AI. This is the right instinct and
must be preserved in the revised architecture.

--- PAGE 3 ---
2. 1 Build a Custom MCP Server. Don't Just Use
Google's
The strategy document treats the MCP server as a pass-through pipe to the Google Ads API. This misses the most important
opportunity in the entire project.
What Google's Official MCP Server Gives Y ou
What MCP Is Actually For
Two tools only: search
(raw GAQL queries) and
list
accessible
customer
_
_
s
Read-only. No write
operations. No
abstraction. No
intelligence.
Intent-to-API mapping. The MCP layer is where you
encode what Render knows as callable tools, not raw API
access, but your methodology made executable.
Example: What "Budget Waste" Means
When Kal says "which campaigns are wasting budget,
" that's not one GAQL query. It's a specific combination of signals that
constitute R e n d e r' s d e f i n i t i o n of waste:
Zero-Conversion Spend
Cost above threshold with zero conversions over N days
Irrelevant Search Terms
Search term reports showing irrelevant queries eating
spend
Low Quality Scores
Quality scores below 5 dragging up CPC across the
account
Misallocated Budget
Impression share lost to budget on campaigns that ARE
converting, i.e. money in the wrong place
That's Render's definition of waste. OTTO doesn't know this. A raw GAQL query doesn't encode this. But a custom MCP tool
called analyze
_
budget
_
waste does and it does so deterministically, testably, every time.

--- PAGE 4 ---
Custom MCP Server: Proposed Tool Suite
The custom MCP server should expose the following tools, each encoding a specific piece of Render's institutional methodology:
Tool What It Encodes
analyze
_
budget
_
waste diagnose
roas
_
_
drop generate
_
negative
_
keywords health
_
check benchmark
_
account draft
_
campaign cross
mcc
_
_
anomalies Render's methodology for identifying wasted spend, not a single metric, but a
composite diagnostic combining cost thresholds, conversion data, search term quality,
and impression share analysis
Render's playbook: check search terms → auction insights → quality scores → landing
pages → seasonality, in that specific order, with vertical-aware thresholds
Patterns learned across the entire MCC, not just one account but cross-client
intelligence that no single-account tool can replicate
Render's definition of "healthy" per vertical. For example, a 2x ROAS for a day spa is
different from a storage facility. Vertical-specific benchmarks baked in.
Compare any account against Render's portfolio averages for that vertical. For
example, the 4-year MCC dataset as a live benchmark engine
Generate a campaign structure using Render's STAG methodology with vertical-
specific defaults, not a generic template, but Render's actual approach
Surface accounts deviating from expected patterns. This is the cross-client intelligence
OTTO can't do. The killer feature made systematic.
Why Methodology in Tools — Not Prompts
The Problem with System Prompts
Prompts drift. The LLM interprets methodology
differently across sessions — no consistency
guarantee.
Prompts hallucinate.
"Check quality scores" in a
prompt doesn't guarantee the right GAQL query runs.
Prompts can't be unit tested. MCP tools can, and
should be.
The Core Principle
Methodology in a prompt = opinion.
Methodology in an MCP tool = infrastructure.
The LLM's job is to pick the right tool and interpret the
results for the human. The tool's job is to execute
Render's logic exactly. Every time.
This is the moat. Not a prompt. Not a model.
Infrastructure that encodes what you know.
Prompts can't be versioned independently. MCP tools
can, with full change history.

--- PAGE 5 ---
2.2 Event-Driven Architecture: The Agent Should
Be Always On
The strategy document describes a request-response system: someone asks a question in Slack, the agent queries Google Ads,
returns an answer. This is a chatbot with API access. It's not an agent.
Current Design
Proposed Design
"Ask me anything about your Google Ads accounts"
A tool. Reactive. Waits for questions. Only as good as the
questions asked.
"I'm watching your accounts 24/7 . I'll tell you when
something needs attention and handle it once you say go.
"
The first is a tool. The second is a team member.
The Always-On Architecture Flow
Schedule Trigger
EventBridge starts
scheduled health
checks
Agent Analysis
Agent runs MCP tools
and assesses risk
Anomaly
Detected
Step Functions
initiates analysis
workflow
Control Plane
Slack routing: auto,
propose, review,
escalate
The architecture should be flipped from request-response to event-driven, continuously monitoring accounts, surfacing alerts, and
proposing actions. Slack becomes the control plane where the agent surfaces what it found and humans approve or reject actions.

--- PAGE 6 ---
Graduated Autonomy: Not Binary On/Off
Not every action needs approval. The system should have configurable autonomy levels per action type, per client, and per vertical.
These thresholds evolve as trust in the system grows.
Autonomy Level Action Type Example Behavior
Auto-execute Low risk, high
confidence
Propose & wait Medium risk Add negative keyword for obvious
garbage term
Pause underperforming ad group Execute immediately, log, notify in
Slack
Post to Slack, wait for approval via
task token
Draft & review High risk Launch new campaign, change
budget
Escalate Outside policy Spend anomaly >50% above
normal
Create draft, require explicit
human review
Alert Kal directly, block all
automated actions on account
Slack as Control Plane. Not Chat Interface
Instead of slash commands that trigger analysis, the agent has already done the analysis. Here's what a production Slack alert
looks like:
PMS ROAS Alert — ROAS dropped 34% week-over-week.
Root cause: 3 new irrelevant search terms eating $412/week.
Recommended: Add negatives for "mini storage near me free"
,
[Approve] [Modify] [Dismiss]
"storage unit jobs"
,
"storage unit auction"
.
The human makes the judgment call. The infrastructure executes it. This is the pattern that separates production AI from demos.

--- PAGE 7 ---
3. Revised Architecture: Three Layers, Not Three
Phases
The strategy document sequences things as: Phase 1 (MCP) → Phase 2 (Agent) → Phase 3 (Slack). This implies you build a
chatbot, then add automation later. Flip it. Build three layers that work together from the start.
Layer 3: Control Plane
Slack as the Human Interface
Layer 2: Event-Driven Orchestration
Always-On Monitoring
Layer 1: Custom MCP Server
Render's Knowledge as Infrastructure
Layer 1: Custom MCP Server
Wraps Google Ads API with
Render's methodology
Every tool is testable, versioned,
deterministic
This IS the product, the tools are the
moat
Layer 2: Event-Driven
Orchestration
EventBridge schedules trigger
health checks and anomaly
detection
Step Functions handle: detect →
analyze → recommend → approve
→ execute → log
The agent doesn't wait for
questions. It finds problems.
Layer 3: Control Plane
Surfaces alerts, proposals, and
reports
Collects approvals via Slack
interactive messages → Step
Functions task tokens
Supports on-demand queries. The
chatbot use case still exists, it's just
not the primary mode
Per-client channel isolation
maintained
Key Insight: In this model, you can ship Layer 1 + Layer 2 with a simple notification channel (even email or SMS) and add
Slack polish later. The value comes from the always-on monitoring and the encoded knowledge — not from the chat
interface.

--- PAGE 8 ---
4. What This Means for the Build
A direct comparison of the original plan versus the recommended architectural changes across every major decision point:
Original Plan Recommended Change
Use Google's official MCP server as-is System prompt encodes agency knowledge Build a custom MCP server that wraps Google Ads API with
Render's methodology
MCP tools encode agency knowledge. Testable, versioned,
deterministic
Slack slash commands trigger analysis Event-driven system triggers analysis automatically; Slack
surfaces results
Phase 2 is a "proprietary agent" with a dashboard Phase 3 is Slack integration Phase 2 is event-driven orchestration with Step Functions
Slack is a control plane from the start, even if V1 is just a
notification channel
Read-only first, then write actions Read + monitored alerts from day one; write actions gated by
graduated autonomy

--- PAGE 9 ---
5. What Doesn't Change
Several elements of the original strategy are correct and should be preserved exactly as designed. These are not up for revision.
Draft Mode
Draft mode before anything goes live. This is correct, keep
this. Non-negotiable for production AI.
Per-Client Channel Isolation
Correct architecture for multi-tenant context. Maintain strict
per-client channel separation throughout.
Cross-MCC Intelligence
This is the killer feature. The custom MCP server makes it
systematic and not ad hoc, but encoded and repeatable.
Ankush on Python/FastAPI
Right stack for this. Python/FastAPI backend is the correct
technical choice for the MCP server and orchestration layer.
Competitive Positioning
"Built by practitioners, not an SEO company" is the right
message. The custom MCP server makes this claim
technically defensible.
Pricing Model
Revisit after internal validation, but directionally sound.
Don't let pricing decisions block architecture decisions.

--- PAGE 10 ---
6. Next Step
See the companion document for the sprint-by-sprint build plan, mapped to
production AI architecture principles:
Ads Genie Detailed Implementation Plan
The sprint-by-sprint build plan, mapped to production AI architecture
principles. Covers Layer 1 through Layer 3 sequencing, tooling
decisions, testing strategy, and deployment approach.
This review is informed by the "AI. But Production" Framework, a structured
methodology for building production-grade AI systems. The detailed
implementation plan applies specific principles from this framework to the
Ads Genie architecture.
Document Status
DRAFT (For Discussion)
Prepared by Chris Morancie
Fractional CTO / AI Architect
For: Render Analytics
March 2026
